---
title: Git Tools(2) Stashing and clearing
layout: post
category : Git
tag : [stage]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

<h3>Staging your work</h3>

`stage` takes the dirty state of your working directory, including modified tracked files and staged changes, and save it on a stack of unfinished changes that you can reapply at any time.

Now we have status like below, a staged file and a modified file:


<pre class="prettyprint lang-sh">
$ git status
On branch master
Your branch is up-to-date with 'origin/master'.
Changes to be committed:
  (use "git reset HEAD <file>..." to unstage)

	new file:   test2

Changes not staged for commit:
  (use "git add <file>..." to update what will be committed)
  (use "git checkout -- <file>..." to discard changes in working directory)

	modified:   test
</pre>

And we want to switch to another branch having not committed these files, `stage` command will help.

<pre class="prettyprint lang-sh">
$ git stash
Saved working directory and index state WIP on master: 7016ec6 3. add a new line in test1
HEAD is now at 7016ec6 3. add a new line in test1
</pre>

It saves our working directory as you see and the working directory is clean.
<pre class="prettyprint lang-sh">
$ git status
On branch master
Your branch is up-to-date with 'origin/master'.
nothing to commit, working directory clean
</pre>

To list all stashes you've stored, using `stash list`.

<pre class="prettyprint lang-sh">
$ git stash list
stash@{0}: WIP on master: 7016ec6 3. add a new line in test1
</pre>

Here we are on branch *test*, and want to apply the stash,

<pre class="prettyprint lang-sh">
$ git stash apply	# apply the stash@{0} on branch test
$ git stash apply stash@{1}	# apply the stash@{1}
</pre>

After `apply`, every change you stashed is replayed. However, the changes to be committed before(that is, the changes you `git add`)are in type of modified files, and you may `git add` them again. To avoid this, passing `--index` parameter to `git stash apply` and the files `git add` before will be `git add` again.

<pre class="prettyprint lang-sh">
$ git stash apply --index # apply the latest stash and replay staging using `git add`
</pre>

To remove a stash, `drop` command is used.

<pre class="prettyprint lang-sh">
$ git stash drop stash@{0}
</pre>

<h4>Creative Staging</h4>
There are a few magic features in `git stash`. 

The first one is `--keep-index` option which tell Git not to stash anything that you've staged with `git add`. This option will be very helpful if you make many changes but only want to commit some of them and then back to the rest of changes at a later time.

The second one is `-u` or `--include-untracked` option. This option tells Git to stage untracked files as well as tracked ones, because in default the untracked files are ignored by `git stash`. 

<h4>Cleaning your working directory</h4>

Now you want to get rid of some work or files in your directory. For tracked files, `git checkout` may be helpful, while for untracked files, system command `rm` can be used. Also, you have another choice, `git clean` which is designed to remove files from your directory that are not tracked. This is very dangerous because removed files using `git clean` can't be retrieved. A alternative way is `git stash --all` to remove everything but stash them.

<pre class="prettyprint lang-sh">
$ git clean -f # -f means force or "really do this", it must be added if you want to do remove.
</pre>

To `git clean`, a smart way is `git clean -n` to check which files are about to remove.


By default, `git clean` only removes untracked files that are not ignored. That is, any file that matches a pattern in your `.gitignore` file will not be removed. If you want to remove these files too, you can add `-x` option to it.
