---
title: Git Tools(1) Revision selection
layout: post
category : Git
tag : [branch, rebase, merge]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

<h3>Revision selection</h3>

Git allows you to specify specific commits through several ways.

1. using a whole SHA-1 value.
2. using a prefix of an SHA-1 value as long as it is not ambigious.
3. using branch references.
4. `reflog`. `reflog` is a log where your HEAD and branch references have been for the last few months. You can use `HEAD@{n}` to specifiy the n-th prior value of the HEAD.
5. Ancestry references. If you put a `^` at the end of a reference, Git resolves it to mean the parent of that commit. For example, `HEAD^` means the first parent of `HEAD`. Except `^`, `~` is the other main ancestry specification. `HEAD~` is the same as `HEAD^` while `HEAD~n` refers to the n-th patent of `HEAD`. 

<pre class="prettyprint lang-sh">
$ git show 7016ec6 # prefix of SHA-1
$ git show 7016ec6957face338480e7234b9b51d958f57ad4 # whole SHA-1
$ git show master # using branch reference
$ 
$ git reflog
7016ec6 HEAD@{0}: merge test1: Fast-forward
6efe4d2 HEAD@{1}: checkout: moving from test1 to master
7016ec6 HEAD@{2}: rebase finished: returning to refs/heads/test1
7016ec6 HEAD@{3}: rebase: 3. add a new line in test1
1b3bbbf HEAD@{4}: rebase: . add a line in test1
6efe4d2 HEAD@{5}: rebase: checkout master
$ git show HEAD@{2}
$ git show HEAD^
$ git show HEAD^^ # the second parent of HEAD
$ git show master~2
</pre>

<h3>Commit ranges</h3>
Except show individual commit, sometimes you want to specify ranges of commits.

<h4>Double dot</h4>
Double dot syntax asks Git to resolve a range of commits that are reachable from one branch but aren't reachable from another branch.

<pre class="prettyprint lang-sh">
# commits that are reachable from test but aren't reachable from master
$ git log master..test
# show commits that aren't reachable from origin/master
$ git log origin/master..HEAD
</pre>

<h4>Mutiple points</h4>

`Double dot` allows you to specify two branches. However, what if you want to see the commits in any of branch *test1* and *test2* but not in branch *master*? Now either `^` or `--not` works. Each of them is useful to spefify more than two branches.

<pre class="prettyprint lang-sh">
$ git log test1 test2 ^master
$ git log test1 test2 --not master
# check commits in any of test1, test2 and test3 but not in master
$ git log test1 test2 tes3 ^master
</pre>

<h4>Triple dot</h4>

`Triple dot` syntax spefifies all commits that are reachable by either of two branches but not both of them.

<pre class="prettyprint lang-sh">
# show commits that in test1 or in test2 but not both of them
$ git log test1...test2
</pre>

It's easy to see which branch them commit belongs to through parameter `--left-right`.

<pre class="prettyprint lang-sh">
# show commits that in test1 or in test2 but not both of them
$ git log --left-right test1...test2
< A
< B
> C
> D
</pre>

`<` means the commit belongs to *test1* while `>` refer to *test2*.
